Add Procedure for Exporting AWS Task Logs to Datadog (#1211)
astronomer/docs: astro/view-logs.md

:::info

> If you need to forward task logs to other third-party logging tools, contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, Datadog on AWS is the only third party log forwarder available. If you need to forward task logs to other third-party logging tools, or are using a different cloud than AWS, please contact [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support) to discuss requirements.
```

We currently don't offer any other log forwarding integrations. Just want to temper the customers expectations here.

    - **Warn**: Emitted when Airflow detects an issue that may or may not be of concern but does not require immediate action. This often includes deprecation notices marked as `DeprecationWarning`. For example, Airflow might recommend that you upgrade your Deployment if there was a change to the Airflow database or task execution logic.
    - **Info**: Emitted frequently by Airflow to show that a standard scheduler process, such as DAG parsing, has started. These logs are frequent but can contain useful information. If you run dynamically generated DAGs, for example, these logs will show how many DAGs were created per DAG file and how long it took the scheduler to parse each of them.

5. Optional. To view the scheduler logs for another Deployment, select a different Deployment in the **Select a Deployment** menu.

## Export task logs to Datadog (_AWS only_) 

> Astro supports forwarding Airflow task logs and basic Airflow metrics to Datadog. If you want to enable log forwarding or you're interested in forwarding task logs to other third-party logging tools, submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support). In your request, make sure to provide your Datadog API key and identify on which Astro cluster(s) you want to enable the integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astro supports forwarding Airflow task logs to [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/). You only have to enable Datadog once for each cluster on Astro, and task logs from all Deployments in that cluster will be exported.

To export Airflow task logs to Datadog:

1. Create a new Datadog API key or copy an existing API key. See [API and Application Keys](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/).
2. Identify the Astro cluster for which you want to enable this integration.
3. Submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support) with your Datadog API key and name of your Astro cluster.
```

A couple of comments here:
- Let's link to Datadog
- What's the standard verb for forwarding logs? Is it "forward" or "export"?
- I'd prefer steps here and links out to Datadog docs for clarity

> Astro has early access support for forwarding Airflow task logs and basic Airflow metrics to Datadog. If you want to enable log forwarding or you're interested in forwarding task logs to other third-party logging tools, submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support). In your request, make sure to provide your Datadog API key and identify on which Astro cluster(s) you want to enable the integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro supports forwarding Airflow task logs and basic Airflow metrics to Datadog. If you want to enable log forwarding or you're interested in forwarding task logs to other third-party logging tools, submit a request to [Astronomer support](https://cloud.astronomer.io/support). In your request, make sure to provide your Datadog API key and identify on which Astro cluster(s) you want to enable the integration.
```

This is now a fully supported feature

> To export metrics to Datadog, see [Export Airflow metrics to Datadog](deployment-metrics.md#export-airflow-metrics-to-datadog).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astro also supports exporting Airflow metrics Datadog. See [Export Airflow metrics to Datadog](deployment-metrics.md#export-airflow-metrics-to-datadog).
```

    - **Warn**: Emitted when Airflow detects an issue that may or may not be of concern but does not require immediate action. This often includes deprecation notices marked as `DeprecationWarning`. For example, Airflow might recommend that you upgrade your Deployment if there was a change to the Airflow database or task execution logic.
    - **Info**: Emitted frequently by Airflow to show that a standard scheduler process, such as DAG parsing, has started. These logs are frequent but can contain useful information. If you run dynamically generated DAGs, for example, these logs will show how many DAGs were created per DAG file and how long it took the scheduler to parse each of them.

5. Optional. To view the scheduler logs for another Deployment, select a different Deployment in the **Select a Deployment** menu.

## Export task logs to Datadog (_AWS only_) 

Astro supports forwarding Airflow task logs to [Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/). You only need to enable Datadog once for each Astro cluster. After you enable Datadog, task logs from all Deployments in the cluster are exported.

> Astro also supports exporting Airflow metrics to Datadog. See [Export Airflow metrics to Datadog](deployment-metrics.md#export-airflow-metrics-to-datadog).

Reviewer 2: I'd prob still keep this at the bottom? I'll defer to you, but I don't think it changes if or how the user follows the steps below.

    - **Warn**: Emitted when Airflow detects an issue that may or may not be of concern but does not require immediate action. This often includes deprecation notices marked as `DeprecationWarning`. For example, Airflow might recommend that you upgrade your Deployment if there was a change to the Airflow database or task execution logic.
    - **Info**: Emitted frequently by Airflow to show that a standard scheduler process, such as DAG parsing, has started. These logs are frequent but can contain useful information. If you run dynamically generated DAGs, for example, these logs will show how many DAGs were created per DAG file and how long it took the scheduler to parse each of them.

5. Optional. To view the scheduler logs for another Deployment, select a different Deployment in the **Select a Deployment** menu.

> ## Export AWS task logs to Datadog

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Export task logs to Datadog (_AWS only_)
```
Assuming that the task logs are Airflow task logs and not AWS task logs right?

Author: @jwitz good catch. The originating documentation states "... task log export (on AWS only)". I have updated the heading with your suggestion.

> Exporting AWS task logs to your existing Datadog instance allows you to centralize the management of logs and deployment metrics and resolve issues quickly.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Exporting task logs from AWS to Datadog allows you to centralize the management of logs and identify issues quickly.  

To export metrics to Datadog, see [Export Airflow metrics to Datadog](deployment-metrics.md#export-airflow-metrics-to-datadog).
```

### Prerequisites

- [AWS Command Line Interface (CLI)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/).

> - Data plane cluster ID.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Cluster ID. Find this in the **Clusters** tab of the Cloud UI.
```

> - Datadog API key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Datadog API key. See [API and Application Keys](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/).
```

- A [Datadog site](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/) to receive the AWS task logs.

> ### Create an AWS forwarder stack

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Create an AWS forwarder stack
```

Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to create the AWS forwarder stack:

 ```bash
    aws cloudformation create-stack \
--stack-name <data-plane-cluster-ID>-datadog \
--template-url http://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/forwarder/latest.yaml \
--capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
--parameters ParameterKey=DdApiKey,ParameterValue=<Datadog-API-key> \
             ParameterKey=DdTags,ParameterValue="source:astronomer\,name:airflow"
 ```
The command includes a lambda function that forwards AWS task logs to the datadoghq.com Datadog site. To forward AWS task logs to a different Datadog site, add an additional parameter to the command. For example:

```bash
    aws cloudformation create-stack \
--stack-name <data-plane-cluster-ID>-datadog \
--template-url http://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/forwarder/latest.yaml \
--capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
--parameters ParameterKey=DdApiKey,ParameterValue=<Datadog-API-key> \
             ParameterKey=DdTags,ParameterValue="source:astronomer\,name:airflow"
             ParameterKey=DdSite,ParameterValue=<Datadog-site>
```

> For a list of available Datadog sites, see [Getting Started with Datadog Sites](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Don't think we need to add this again if it's already in the prerequisites.

> ### Add source identifier tags (optional)

Reviewer 3: This is a lot of real estate for a single extra parameter line to the same command in the previous step. Can we add this to the previous step? We could also combine all of these into one command and use [bash comment format](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/bash-comment#:~:text=When%20writing%20bash%20scripts%2C%20any,the%20rest%20of%20the%20code.) to add notes about the optional fields in the command itself.

Author: @jwitz I had a similar thought, but wanted to start with multiple, full commands. I have consolidated some of the optional parameters and used he bash comment format to introduce them. Let me know what you think.

Add tags to log messages to help you identify the source of the messages. To add source identifier tags, add an additional parameter to the command. For example:

```bash
    aws cloudformation create-stack \
--stack-name <dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog \
--template-url http://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/forwarder/latest.yaml \
--capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
--parameters ParameterKey=DdApiKey,ParameterValue=<Datadog-API-key> \
             ParameterKey=DdTags,ParameterValue="source:astronomer\,name:airflow"
             ParameterKey=DdSite,ParameterValue=<Datadog-site>
             ParameterKey=DdTags,ParameterValue="new:tags\,more:tags"
```

> Specify additional tags with a comma delimited list and use the backslash \ character to escape commas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Specify additional tags with a comma-delimited list and use the `\` character to escape commas.
```

> ### Verify AWS forwarder stack creation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Verify AWS forwarder stack creation
```

> Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to view a list of AWS stacks:
> 
> ```bash
>     aws cloudformation list-stacks
> ```
> Run the following command to view a resource description for the AWS forwarder stack:
> 
> ```bash
>     aws cloudformation describe-stack-resources --<stack-name> <dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog
> ```
> Confirm the resource description includes `<dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog-Forwarder-Xliw1oDOFMPj)` or similar.
> 
> Run the following command to view a resource description for the AWS forwarder stack:
> 
> ```bash
>     aws cloudformation describe-stack-resources --<stack-name> <dataplane-cluster-ID>
> ```
> 
> Confirm the resource description includes `airflow-logs-<dataplane-cluster-ID>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to view a list of AWS stacks:

    ```bash
    aws cloudformation list-stacks
    ```

2. Run the following command to view a resource description for the AWS forwarder stack:

    ```bash
    aws cloudformation describe-stack-resources --<stack-name> <dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog
    ```

    Confirm the resource description includes `<dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog-Forwarder-Xliw1oDOFMPj)` or similar.

3. Run the following command to view a resource description for the AWS forwarder stack:

    ```bash
    aws cloudformation describe-stack-resources --<stack-name> <dataplane-cluster-ID>
    ```

    Confirm the resource description includes `airflow-logs-<dataplane-cluster-ID>`.
```

> ### Create a notification

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Create a notification
```
What's the goal of this step? What do notifications do? Is it optional?

Author: @jwitz it's not optional as far as I can tell. I'll confirm. I've also added an introductory statement.

1. Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to return the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) for the AWS forwarder stack:

    ```bash
    aws lambda list-functions | grep -i "<lambda-name>"

>     ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```

```

2. Create a file named `notification.json` in your project directory and add the following entry:

>     ```sh
>         {
>           "LambdaFunctionConfigurations": [
>         {
>             "LambdaFunctionArn": "<LAMBDA ARN>",
>             "Events": [
>               "s3:ObjectCreated:*"
>         ]
>         }
>     ]
>     }
>     ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```json
    {
      "LambdaFunctionConfigurations": [
        {
            "LambdaFunctionArn": "<LAMBDA ARN>",
            "Events": [
                "s3:ObjectCreated:*"
            ]
       }
    ]
    }
    ```
```
JSON is pretty touchy, I would triple confirm that this is the right indentation and appears correctly in the preview site

Author: @jwitz I'll make sure Howard or another SME confirms the accuracy of the _entire_ section.

3. Run the following command to enable notifications for the Amazon S3 bucket containing AWS task logs:

    ```bash
        aws s3api put-bucket-notification-configuration \
        --bucket <S3-bucket-for-Airflow-logs> \
        --notification-configuration file://notification.json
    ```

> ### Verify log stream functionality

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Verify log stream functionality
```

> 1. Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to list the log streams for the AWS task logs:
> 
>     ```bash
>             aws logs describe-log-streams --log-group-name '/aws/lambda/<lambda- name>' --query 'logStreams[*].logStreamName'
>     ```
> 2. Run the following command to list log events for the AWS task log stream:
> 
>     ```bash
>             aws logs get-log-events --log-group-name "/aws/lambda/<lambda- name>" --log-stream-name '<log-stream-name>'
>     ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to list the log streams for the AWS task logs:

    ```bash
    aws logs describe-log-streams --log-group-name '/aws/lambda/<lambda- name>' --query 'logStreams[*].logStreamName'
    ```
2. Run the following command to list log events for the AWS task log stream:

    ```bash
    aws logs get-log-events --log-group-name "/aws/lambda/<lambda- name>" --log-stream-name '<log-stream-name>'
    ```

```

> ### Update an AWS forwarder stack (optional)

Reviewer 3: I don't think we need to include information about updating and deleting in this much detail. If someone's making stacks in their AWS cloud, they should have a cursory understanding of how to update those details.

Author: @jwitz I think this information is helpful. It saves users looking elsewhere for the information. I don't feel strongly about it. So, we can remove it if that's the consensus.

Author: @howardyoo to address your concerns, I have added a note below the introductory statement.

1. Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to return summary information for the AWS stacks you have created:

    ```bash

>             aws logs get-log-events --log-group-name "/aws/lambda/<lambda- name>" --log-stream-name '<log-stream-name>'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    aws logs get-log-events --log-group-name "/aws/lambda/<lambda- name>" --log-stream-name '<log-stream-name>'
```

    ```

2. Run the following command to update the AWS forwarder stack:

    ```bash
        aws cloudformation update-stack \
        --stack-name <data-plane-cluster-ID>-datadog \
        --template-url http://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/forwarder/latest.yaml \
        --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
        --parameters ParameterKey=DdApiKey,ParameterValue=<new-Datadog-API-key> \
                    ParameterKey=DdTags,ParameterValue="<tags>" 
    ```
The example command updates the `DdApiKey` parameter with a new value.

> ### Delete an AWS forwarder stack (optional)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Delete an AWS forwarder stack
```
Let's not list this as optional. We should include an explanation that "When you delete a cluster, you have to manually delete its associated forwarder stack" (Assuming that's the case)

Author: @jwitz I have added the statement, but it needs to be confirmed by a SME.

1. Open the AWS CLI and run the following command to list all Amazon S3 objects and common prefixes in all S3 buckets:

    ```bash

>         aws s3 ls 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    aws s3 ls 
```

    ```

> 2. Run the following command to confirm notifications were enabled for the Amazon S3 bucket:

Reviewer 3: Should we just assume that notifications were enabled for the bucket because we list the step as non-optional? Then we could cut this step out. This shouldn't really matter unless something bad happens (ie more than an error message) when they try to disable notifications that don't exist.

Author: @jwitz fair point. I've removed the step.

>     ```bash
>         aws s3api get-bucket-notification-configuration --bucket airflow-logs-<CLUSTER ID>
> 
>         Output example
>         {
>         "LambdaFunctionConfigurations": [
>             {
>             "Id": "NWI3ZTVmNjktZTliNC00MzdkLWJjY2MtYmU3N2E3ZTEzOGJi",
>             "LambdaFunctionArn": "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:670049755923:function:ckwqtv0zl000c0rr01u5icygi-datadog-Forwarder-O4Z80ihIkN3X",
>             "Events": [
>                 "s3:ObjectCreated:*"
>             ]
>             }
>         ]
>         } 
>     ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```bash
    aws s3api get-bucket-notification-configuration --bucket airflow-logs-<CLUSTER ID>

    # Output example
        {
        "LambdaFunctionConfigurations": [
            {
            "Id": "NWI3ZTVmNjktZTliNC00MzdkLWJjY2MtYmU3N2E3ZTEzOGJi",
            "LambdaFunctionArn": "arn:aws:lambda:us-east-1:670049755923:function:ckwqtv0zl000c0rr01u5icygi-datadog-Forwarder-O4Z80ihIkN3X",
            "Events": [
                "s3:ObjectCreated:*"
            ]
            }
        ]
        } 
    ```
```
Again, need to double check on the indentation here.

3. Run the following command to disable notifications for the Amazon S3 bucket:

    ```bash

>         aws s3api put-bucket-notification-configuration --bucket airflow-logs-<dataplane-cluster-ID> --notification-configuration="{}"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    aws s3api put-bucket-notification-configuration --bucket airflow-logs-<dataplane-cluster-ID> --notification-configuration="{}"
```

    ```
4. Run the following command to delete the AWS forwarder stack:

    ```bash

>         aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name <dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name <dataplane-cluster-ID>-datadog
```
